docs(ae): AE 2.0 - 3rd party installation - API spec (#934)
gravitee-io/gravitee-docs: pages/ae/installation-guide/installation-guide-sizing-requirements.adoc

= Sizing Requirements
:page-sidebar: ae_sidebar
:page-permalink: ae/userguide_sizing_requirements.html
:page-folder: ae/installation-guide
:page-description: Gravitee Alert Engine - Introduction
:page-keywords: Gravitee, API Platform, Alert, Alert Engine, documentation, manual, guide, reference, api, best practices, sizing requirements
:page-layout: ae

== Overview

> The following sections gives installation advice, particularly resource planning and system optimizations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections provide installation advice, particularly regarding resource planning and system optimization.
```

[cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
|Number of triggers  |Compute |Memory |Events/second

|10
|1 (v)CPU
|256m
|7000

|100
|1 (v)CPU
|256m
|4000

|100
|2 (v)CPU
|256m
|8000

|500
|1 (v)CPU
|256m
|2500

|500
|2 (v)CPU
|256m
|5000

|500
|2 (v)CPU
|512m
|6000

|1000
|2 (v)CPU
|512m
|4000

|===

== Best practices

=== Moderate your notifications

> Ingesting and processing events requires computation resources, therefore you want to make sure that all this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ingesting and processing events requires computational resources, so you should make sure that all this
```

> processing power is not overcome by firing too many notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
processing power is not overcome by firing too many notifications. The following best practices can help with this.
```

==== Dampenings

Dampenings are a good way to reduce the frequency of your notifications.

> Click link:/ae/userguide_dampening.html[here] to check out different dampening strategies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the link:/ae/userguide_dampening.html[Dampening] page for more information about various dampening strategies you can use.
```

==== Time-based conditions

link:/ae/userguide_conditions.html#aggregation[Aggregation] and link:/ae/userguide_conditions.html#rate[Rate] condition
rely on `duration` and `timeUnit`, so they can be evaluated in a given period of time.

=== Redundancy

> Alert Engine allows you to deploy a cluster of several gateways in order to ingest events, triggers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alert Engine allows you to deploy a cluster of several gateways in order to ingest events and triggers,
```

> but also to avoid having a single point of failure in case one of the node goes down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but also to avoid having a single point of failure in case one of the nodes goes down.
```

=== Tune your JVM

> We made our tests by enforcing *Garbage-First Collector*. While this garbage collector is the default one since Java 9, under certain conditions (like very low resource allocation)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We performed our tests by enforcing *Garbage-First Collector*. While this garbage collector has been the default one since Java 9, under certain conditions (such as, very low resource allocation)
```

the JVM enforces the *Serial Garbage Collector* (SerialGC) as the default one.

> Make sure to have in your JVM arguments `JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -XX:+UseG1GC"` to enforce it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 To enforce it, make sure that `JAVA_OPTS="$JAVA_OPTS -XX:+UseG1GC"` is included in your JVM arguments.
```

=== Make your events small

> Your events should contain only the necessary data, which means:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your events should only contain the necessary data, which means that you should:
```

> - Remove extra unnecessary data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove extra unnecessary data.
```

> - Keep the name/values of your JSON objects as small as possible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Keep the name/values of your JSON objects as small as possible.
```

> This allows better performance for data serialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provides for better performance for data serialization.
```

=== More compute, more power

> Would you need more processing power to ingest events or execute rules, increase the number of (v)CPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need more processing power to ingest events or to execute rules, increase the number of (v)CPUs.
```

> Increasing the memory can be useful if you are dealing with large data or as a buffer when the computation power

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Increasing the memory size can be useful if you are dealing with large data or as a buffer when the computational power
```
